Sr.No.	Lecture content
1	"Introduction to C programming, Why C?,
Hello World program, box diagram"
2	Phases of Compilation, Compiling and Executing the program using gcc, Importance of C, Basic Structure of C programs
3	Number Systems, Variables, DataType as interpretation. ASCII table. Bit-Byte.
4	C Tokens, deriving range 1 byte signed/unsigned, identifiers rules
5	Categories of constants (numeric,char), escape sequences, 2 byte signed/unsigned, use of math function pow with -lm compilation option, pow 2n program output. Purpose of -Wall option in gcc. sizeof as operator.
6	short, long type specifier. classes of data types. program using sizeof operator to show storage capacity with sizeof, character maths
7	overflow and underflow. typedef, enum. #define, assignment operation, printf and scanf
8	printf decimal, hexa and octal display. scanf reading from input stream
9	"volatile keyword, arithmetic operators, integer vs float arithmetic example 3 1 3 6 to get 8.
relational operators, increment/decrement operators, comma operator."
10	turnary operator, Logical operator, Bitwise and shift operators
11	Precedence and associativity, evaluation of expressions, type casting introduction
12	implicit vs explicit type casting. math library. char functions, I/O
13	"Formatted Input and Output - integer and real numbers,
if, if else, nested if else, else if ladder, switch case"
14	switch rules, Introduction to loops. Types of loops.
15	while loop and for loop programs
16	do while program, break, fibonacci
17	continue, nested for.
18	array introduction, categories, avg of 10 numbers. memory structure and index.
19	display reverse, array index out of bound concept, linear search. exit(0);
20	sorting concept. insertion sort program with example.
21	initialization of array, char array, string defination, 2d array initialization, store 1to20 into 5x4 matrix.
22	row major vs column major, sales 2d array and operations.
23	pascal triagle approaches, copying array, string I/O, Introduction to string library functions.
24	programs of pascal triangle, use and code: strlen, strcpy.
25	strcmp and strcat function example and internal logic
26	multidimensional array, table of strings.
27	Function elements, purpose and call and return execution flow.
28	categories of functions.
29	Storage classes
30	recursion
31	recursion example , array call by address
32	array argument example. 
33	Introduction to structures as UDT, typedef, initialization. purpose. dot operator.
34	Array of structures, structure witin structure
35	integer array as data member of structure, structure and function - passing structure variable as argument and returning.
36	structure slackbyte and more.
37	Unions, BitFields
38	program for book inventory
39	"Rules for initializing structure variables, quiz program of 
recursive function calling multiple times within."
40	"Pointer datatype and arithmetic. Array traversal using 
pointer arithmetic. pointer to pointer (chain of pointers)."
41	Pointer to constant, constant pointer, void*, explicit type casting.
42	"swap using pointers, initialization of pointer, NULL pointer. expressions with 
pointers."
43	"memory and pointer arithmetic, array name and attached datatype, purpose of * 
to downcast/downgrade."
44	array of pointers, sorting of strings and memory layouts
45	pointer to array, pointer and structures.
46	functions returning pointers. strcpy, strcat
47	pointer and function; use of callback function, libraries like threads.
